# Grating Spectroscopy

**Experimental Set-Up:** Firstly, the tripod should be opened and the legs must be set as far as possible (one must use the spreader to keep the legs sturdy). Then, the motor drive must be mounted, the telescope’s optical tube should be carefully slid into the slot on the motor drive and the screw on the fork arm must be turned to ensure that it has a secure hold. The viewfinder/finder scope can be tightly affixed to the optical tube using the screws on it. After this, the cap at the back of the optical tube can be removed and the star diagonal and the CMOS camera (with a wire connecting to a laptop with the Maxim DL software) can be attached to it. The Finder Scope can then be calibrated to the eyepiece and the telescope can be aligned using the two-star alignment process.

We essentially used the SBIG STC-7 Imaging Camera, a Schmidt-Cassegrain telescope with a view finder, a motor drive and tripod for the telescope, and a diffraction grating. Software used includes Maxim DL and RSpec.

**What We Did:** For this experiment, we used the following stars: Betelgeuse (Type M), Procyon (Type F), Rigel (Type B), Algieba (Type K), Sirius (Type A). After setting up the apparatus, we proceeded to capture the images. We connected the camera to the Maxim DL software and aligned the telescope to the first star Sirius. By setting the filter to the Luminance filter, we began a continuous sequence of identical exposures (taking exposures ranginfrom 0.001s to 1s) to focus the image and bring it to the centre of the frame to see the pattern clearly (these images are not saved). Then, a custom sequence of exposures — 0.1s and 0.5s — were set and applied along with the file name and the delay between each shot (1s) using the Autosave button, after which pictures of the diffraction pattern were shot and stored in a folder on the desktop. These images were later analysed and the graphs were obtained using RSpec spectroscopy software.

Firstly, the diffraction pattern of Sirius was loaded as it had noticeable peaks and $x$-axis (which was initially in pixels) was calibrated to angstrom units representing wavelength using the pixels for central maximum and the Hydrogen-β line. After this, many other diffraction patterns were loaded and observed; if there was a slight shift in the graph, it was calibrated again using the one-point alignment option, where the
central maximum was used. Of all the stars observed, the intensity-wavelength graph for Betelgeuse matched the reference graph for M-type star well and had noticeable maxima. Therefore, Betelegeuse was chosen to study further, and the temperature and the radius of the star were found using Wien’s displacement law and the radius-luminosity-temperature relation.
